Session:: 02
------------

Where do we use Linux in Today's World?


a)
In initial days in a company we had bare metal servers, they managed it and then they used it.

   what is a physical server?
   - A physical server, also known as a bare-metal server, is a hardwre server consisting of a cpu, memory, storage, and other internal hardware components 
   contianed in a physical case. It also has an Operating System(OS) for running applications.


   Disadvantages of physical servers:
   ----------------------------------
   >Relatively High cost
   >Your IT staff will be responsible for setup, configuration, and maintainenace.
   >you may need to hire a contractor or vendor for help if you have  any difficulty with configuration or repairs.
   >you cannot scale storage in smalll increments once you have reach the maximum workload since you purchased and own the hardware.
   >Requires physical or colocation space.


b) as a solution came next datacentre.
      
      Data  Centers contain physical or virtual servers that are connected internally and externally through networking and communication equipm
      
      Data  Centers contain physical or virtual servers that are connected internally and externally through networking and communication equipment to store , transfer and
      access digital information. Each server has a processor, Storage space and memory, similar to a personal computer but with more power.


      -lots of servers at one place.
      ex:: google datacenter 
           IBM DataCentre

How does this work:
 for ex:: They will launch virtual server for us/our company.
  and using internet and vpn we can get access 
  to it.(mananges downtimes, backup,etc....)
  -but this also ha some dis-advantage.
                      -any disturbance/wrong contact service provider.



c) best solution
Cloud env.
ex:: Aws, azure 


all roles you have to do by creating a account.
manage Instance, manage everything, deploy instances pay for what you use, cheaper.

cloud administrator

where is our roles as a linux guy?
- even in cloud most of the virtual infrastructure will be in linux bcoz of security reasons.
If you host website ex:: through GoDaddy , they mostly will be in hosted in Linux env/os


In the next session we will talk about Course curriculum:


Follow vedio description for github link for notes


Please do like and subscribe the channel and keep on learning!!!

